# Identifying a commit

By default, `jj show` assumes you want to inspect the working copy.
This is useful for verifying the content of the working copy before creating a new commit.
However, we may want to inspect the content of older commits as well.
To achieve that, we need to pass some identification of that commit as an argument to `jj show`.
Let's use the change ID of the first commit we completed:

```sh
jj show rnyzwzlp # <- substitute your own change ID here
```

<!-- generated by aha script -->
<pre class="aha">
Commit ID: <span class="blue ">889387000bb79f4ec2989ca1f5a55693f6d6fa42</span>
Change ID: <span class="purple ">rnyzwzlpvvovnlynxupuzmppkkxxqptr</span>
Author   : <span class="yellow ">Remo Senekowitsch</span> &lt;<span class="yellow ">remo@buenzli.dev</span>&gt; (<span class="cyan ">2025-07-10 11:42:28</span>)
Committer: <span class="yellow ">Remo Senekowitsch</span> &lt;<span class="yellow ">remo@buenzli.dev</span>&gt; (<span class="cyan ">2025-07-10 14:21:14</span>)

    Add readme with project title

    It's common practice for software projects to include a file called
    README.md in the root directory of their source code repository. As the
    file extension indicates, the content is usually written in markdown,
    where the title of the document is written on the first line with a
    prefixed `#` symbol.

<span class="yellow ">Added regular file README.md:</span>
     <span class="green ">   1</span>: <span class="underline "></span><span class="underline green "># jj-tutorial</span><span class="green "></span>
</pre>

Notice that `jj show` displays the full commit description, not just the subject line like `jj log`.

There are several ways to identify a commit.
We just used a prefix of a change ID.
It's actually possible to use an even shorter prefix!
You may have noticed that the output of `jj log` highlights the first few characters of the change ID in purple, while the remaining ones are white.
The purple characters represent the **shortest unambiguous prefix**.
In my case, running `jj show r` would've been enough already.



Let's look at a couple more ways to identify commits.
Assume we also want to inspect the content of the root commit.
Here are some equivalent ways to do that: 

- `jj show 'root()'` - uses the special `root()` marker
- `jj show 00000000` - uses the commit hash prefix
- `jj show @---` - uses ✨ magic ✨

That last one is interesting.
It uses th `@` sign to identify the working copy, followed by the `-` minus sign three times.
The minus sign roughly means "it's parent".
So the expression `@---` could be translated to: "the working copy commit's parent's parent's parent" (or more concisely, it's great-grandparent).
In this case, that's the root commit.

This is an example of Jujutsu's [**revset language**](https://jj-vcs.github.io/jj/latest/revsets/), which allows you to identify commits based on properties and relationships, instead of just their ID.
It's incredibly useful, but there's no need to learn the entire language in one go.
We'll introduce more useful features of it in byte-sized chunks.
I only remember some of the most useful features myself.
When I need something more elaborate, it's more efficient to just consult the documentation in that moment, rather than trying to memorize everything upfront.
I'd say the revset expression I use most often by far is `@-`.
Referring to the immediate parent of the working copy comes up a lot.

Run `jj show @-` and confirm that the output matches your expectation.
